All right, thanks everybody. Um, I want
to introduce and thank Keith Raboi for
coming and joining us. And we spent
three days talking about a bunch of
specific things about CEOs and journeys
and a lot about sales and marketing,
which is what we do. But um uh and we've
talked a lot and we did a great with
with Kirsten Helyby from Cornerstone
this morning about people, but I wanted
to talk about teams. Um and Keith has an
amazing background as some of you know.
Um first of all, I mean, we've got I'm
going to miss some, but PayPal, which
was which is one of the most iconic
teams in the world. I want to come back
to it, right? We bookend that with co CO
square, which is epic, and then a few
other companies like LinkedIn and Yelp
and others thrown in the middle, right?
So, and you've made a handful of good
investments, too. So, clearly you know
how to identify good teams, right? And
um and now you founded a company or two
that may become a decacorn. Um but let
me step back. I don't want to talk
through the whole PayPal mafia stuff,
but I want to talk about one thing
that's interesting, which is and and now
you think about it as you work with more
teams and invest in teams. um like
upandcomers and overachievers and and
the if I think about the PayPal team
obviously it's iconic it's the greatest
but these are all upandcomers right this
is about the Ross team on on the this is
IQ and horsepower and tenacity with like
not a grain of experience and it was a
while ago but but so let's fast forward
today where do you come out on this
continuum of experience versus natural
athlete and what's the learning for
folks here so yeah generally I'm a fan
of natural athlete Um I think it does
matter by vertical. I think on the
consumer side it's almost surely the
right answer more often than not. On
enterprise there are benefits of
experience and maybe you mix the team
together. So a good compliment might be
like a founder who's very naive, very
hungry paired with somebody who's got a
lot more experience or vice versa. And
so you get the benefit of both like
particularly if they're both co-founders
or one's a CEO, one is a COO. So there's
ways to structure the the entire team
that maximizes, you know, the upside.
But naivveness matters because like when
you go into a vertical too often, it's
very easy to get cynical, you know,
start believing the rules and therefore
you missed some of the best
opportunities. Like for example, um even
in payments, you know, I I got somewhat
cynical from my PayPal experience.
Pretty much avoided payments for about
eight years. You got back in. Yeah, I
got sucked back in and it wasn't a
no-brainer decision to join Square. It
was very hard and half of my friends,
half of my PayPal friends thought I was
crazy. Um, and I won't tell you which
one was which, but um, and then
similarly when I first met Stripe, I
actually I sort of declined to invest,
which is a massive mistake. You know, I
had to fix that like a couple years
later and pay like a,000 extra thousand
more.
Um so like you know like the benefits of
experience definitely blind you to new
ways of doing things and you know and
also if you have to deal with suppliers
for example um when Roloff invested in
YouTube um I don't think he realized how
difficult the content owners would be um
and I'm not sure he would have invested
had he had expertise in that space.
That's a fair point. So I think that
that's you know it's a danger of the
danger of um experience too. Yeah. But
and what how what's the there's there
and what's the trade-off as you get into
industries that are more regulated.
Right. or where domain expertise feels
more necessary, right? Whether it, you
know, it could be, it could be
healthcare, it could be insurance,
there's could be other issues. And where
is where's the trade-off there, right?
Because you come out of Y Com wherever,
there's just amazing companies being
born in every industry. Well, I think we
had the a good formula at PayPal, which
is we had about two or three people in
the entire company that had any
experience in financial services. So,
like the general counsel, for example,
had a lot of experience, and it's a
pretty useful role to have your general
counsel know something about what you're
doing. Um, but but we tried to like
minimize it. Same thing at square like
even if you included me and I don't
think of myself as a payments person I
think in the first 200 people in the
company there was three people who had
any financial services experience so you
can get the benefits by having just one
or two you know doses of experience and
then you highly leverage them and you
ask them a lot of questions and all the
questions start with why like why do we
need to do it this way why you know why
why are you sure is there a way around
this and then that's where the leaders
and the founders and executives who
don't have the experience can just be
relentless about are there better
alternatives because they start from a
perspective of you know a whiteboard a
fresh perspective and then you can take
advantage of the lessons of 20 years of
experience. Yeah. And and and and um and
and boy I should know the name the
startup that that you co-founded in
addition to your 28 investments that's
in that's doing the real estate. It's
called the open door. Open door. Sorry I
just want to get it right. How many
folks on Open Door have deep real estate
industry experience? Maybe one or two.
So we have about 70 employees today.
Yeah. Um the CEO has some like more like
personal experience. So he's bought and
traded real estate personally. He also
did one or two startups in more in the
rental version of real estate. So he's
the real estate guru and everybody else
in the company basically is not. But you
kind of need to get it right because
you're investing a lot of money. Things
don't happen. If you if you
misunderstand the industry, you could
have tens or hundreds of millions of
dollars of exposure, right? Yeah. This
is an Elon company. Like if you got to
get the satellite into orbit because it
could crash, you know, it' be really
ugly.
So, and let's um but let's talk more
about people. So, so you come into
Square, you're COO. Um what's the what's
the kind of Zen learning at Zenday? And
CEO can mean a million things in a
million companies, that's for sure,
right? It can be the oddest term, but
when should I get a wingman, right? And
what should that wingman do and what
should they own? And and I and and
what's your advice? And I see people
today more and more of them want to COO
earlier and earlier, right? they want to
just offload all this stuff and what
what what are all the learnings and what
should we do? So I think there's
different rules sort of to apply and
principles to apply and there's no right
answer for all companies and all
founders because partially what a co
does is become the compliment to a
founder and every founder has different
strengths and weaknesses and different
things they like to do and things they
hate to do. So that's one of the reasons
and then sec secondly all of the cos
have different responsibilities. Um if
you look at the org chart of box which
just had on stage versus the org chart
at Facebook versus the or chart at Yelp
versus the old or chart you know back in
the day with Steven Bill at Microsoft
they divided responsibilities very
differently. So you have a lot of
different choices but the first question
is when and how and why to get a COO. I
don't think you should necessarily. Um,
when I was growing up in Silicon Valley,
I had, you know, one of the wisest and
most experienced people on a board with
me, uh, Pierre Lamont. And Pierre said,
"Absolutely, you technology companies
should never have cos." And that was the
conventional wisdom. And there's a lot
of good reasons behind that conventional
wisdom. So, you're violating the
conventional wisdom every time you hire
a COO. I think some of the best reasons
to do it is if you look at your calendar
on a Sunday night and you're the CEO
going into your week and more than half
your calendar is already booked, you
probably need another senior leader. Um
now whether that person gets a title of
COO is a different question but you need
to have enough flexibility half if your
half your time is in meetings or
something. If you're ready if you're
already like have no time to think no
time for discretionary you know
interaction with people you're way over
consumed as CEO. The second thing is
there's been a rise and I think this
correlates with the rise of COOs. Many
many CEOs today want to play two roles.
They want to be VP of product and CEO
which is which is perfectly fine.
There's a lot of great successes. most
many of the best companies ever, you
know, have that kind of formula. But if
you're a lot of mythology around it,
too. If you're going to play both roles,
you can't do every other role as well.
So, if you're CEO and VP of product,
then you might want a COO pretty soon.
If you're CEO and you're just a normal
CEO and then you've got like VPs and
executives, you know, like in a standard
org chart, you may not need a COO ever.
But if you really want to be in in
control day-to-day of an operating
function or let's say you want to be CEO
and VP of marketing or CEO and VP of
sales, then you probably do need a
compliment sooner than normal um to help
because you can't do every role. And if
you want that to be a permanent position
as opposed to I'm just temporarily
playing VP of product and I'm going to
recruit that, then you might hire a COO
tomorrow. Yeah. And so, and I I don't
want to spend too much time on CO, but
it's just I I see folks trying to go
earlier and earlier there. I know it's
situational, but what should I look for?
Should I look for a mentor? Should I
look for someone with five or eight
years more of experience? Um, I mean,
you can use your experience at Square or
any of your companies, but what how much
how much of a how much additional
experience should I be bringing onto the
team? It does depend upon your skill
set. So, right, every market is
different. Like, what what makes you
successful in a like a Tesla market is
very different than what make you
different, you know, standard enterprise
software versus a consumer photo sharing
app. And so, you have to have the right
DNA in your company on your team for the
market you're attacking. And then
whatever the founder and the founding
team has, you subtract that and then
what distills is what you need. Yeah.
And so the title is kind of a way of
recruiting someone almost like a founder
that you can't easily get into your
company. So I think it's a good
opportunity to recruit somebody who
fills that big gap, whatever that gap is
from your current team in the market
you're attacking. Um and so then the
title is just one form of compensation
in some ways. Like there's equity, cash,
and title. Yeah. Yeah. And if you can
find someone who's highly motivated, who
has the perfect compliment and some
experience in a in a critical gap, then
absolutely I might give them a title of
COO or president or whatever it takes to
get them on board. But then you have to
divide responsibilities so that you get
a max you the team's performance is
maximized which may mean that this COO
doesn't touch product ever. This COO may
want to be involved in product because
he or she may have skills in product.
Yeah. this COO may have, you know, half
the org reported to him. And some COOs
may have 20%. Some COOs may have 100% of
the org and just report to the CEO,
which is a little bit more like box. So,
you're designing, you have a lot of
flexibility in designing a formula that
works, but it's designing for your
company and your team and your skills.
Different CEOs also don't want to do
certain things. Everybody wakes up in
the morning and says, "I'm looking
forward to doing X, and I really hate
doing Y." For sure. Usually the stuff I
really hate doing why is a good thing to
take off the CEO's plate um and allow
them to spend more of their time doing
what they like and what they think
they're great at. So if a CEO hates
doing employment reviews,
get a COO who's excellent at employment
reviews and loves to do it, doesn't hate
to do it, loves to do it. You know,
famously at Apple in in maybe the last
10 years, but at least for a sustained
period of time, Steve Jobs didn't do
anybody's reviews. the CFO actually did
him. Peter OP actually did all the
reviews because Steve just didn't like
doing it for obvious reasons. He
probably felt like he was giving
feedback at every meeting. Um, so it's
again designed around how do you get the
most leverage out of your most valuable
people. It's the same principle as you
scale your organization. Every leader in
the organization, you want to get the
highest possible leverage at what
they're awesome at and remove the things
that they're not great at and give it to
somebody who's awesome at that. And it's
the same thing apply to how' you do um
and then I want to talk some other
people talks but how did you figure it
out at Square? I mean because let's step
back. I mean, the growth at Square was
just epic, right? I mean I mean you've
you've been at some good companies, but
that's the fastest growing of all, isn't
it? I think so. I mean, I I used to have
a chart in our financing decks and stuff
that would compare Square to most
companies, but it's even the fastest
growing pretty good cohort, right? Other
than Price Price Line grew really fast
back in the 90s. Um, and you know,
Groupon had its moments. Um, I don't
like to do the comparison to Groupon so
much, but Price Line. It had its
moments. It had a good run. Yeah, it
absolutely had a good run. It definitely
did. Um, so we actually did something
different. Um we generally did most
meetings together. Um so like a product
meeting or strategy meeting or a finance
meeting. Um both I'd say 70% of all like
reviews both of us would do at the same
time. Got it. Which is not standard. Um
although there are other two in the two
in the box other companies. It allowed a
little bit of getting feedback stereo
surround to the team which is probably
good. It also allowed um it also ensured
there was no disconnect like we would
debate actually publicly in front of
other people if we had opinions. That
was totally fine. And again, different
cultures have different views on that.
At PayPal, for example, we were very
open like people would debate very
violently and aggressively um by email
and in person. Um so if you build a
culture with transparency and where it's
okay to disagree with your boss, I think
that's a very healthy structure. Um and
then there'd be some things that um I
wouldn't be as interested in or have any
competence in like I might not join an
engineering review. I can't add a lot of
value. Occasionally there might be some
big trade-off decision that I'd want to
be aware of of how the decision was
being made and you know what the pluses
and minuses were. Some once a year or so
I might join an engineering review.
Similarly like a risk and fraud review
which is you know sort of in my DNA and
less interesting to Jack unless it
wasn't going well. He would barely ever
attend. And it was it's interesting. So,
so when you have that two in the box
kind of scenario and and Josh Stein this
morning who just helped me open because
it's day three kind of kind of he
brought up a downside of that scenario
which is sometimes employees don't know
exactly who they work for right and
having two bosses can be very stressful
especially for very motivated employees
so I agree with that you have that issue
did it not matter did you just roll with
it or what's the learning it it did
occasionally pop up I mean I think
clarity you know generally
accountability and clarity in an org
chart is really valuable that said
there's trade-offs so you sacrifice a
little bit of that for more um both
minds tackling a problem simultaneously.
So I could hear for example what Jack
was saying in terms of feedback and that
might affect my opinion or vice versa.
Yeah. And so it was a more thoughtful
like iterative process at giving people
feedback. That said, definitely you
suffer some clarity and you have to hire
I think at some point executives who are
comfortable if you're going to go with
this model which is there are some
executives who are used to saying this
is my sort of kingdom and thieftdom and
as long as I deliver my metrics and my
goals don't ask me a lot of questions
and those executives get furious if
you're like doing these kind of reviews
um because they they totally don't
understand it and then there's some
people who've grown up and like oh
everybody works together we're on one
team it's collaborative that's great I
don't you know I like when people ask me
questions about what I'm doing it makes
me happy. Um, and so I think you have to
hire somewhat in the vein of the
organization you're building or make it
clear in the interview process at a
minimum that this is how the
organization runs and that you're opting
into this. So we had some executives who
were quite quite talented actually um
who would thrive in many places and had
thrived in many places who didn't work
all that well because they were used to
having more ownership of their box and
as long as they delivered they expected
that and we just didn't use that that
approach. Yeah, it's interesting. So, I
want to talk about a related topic that
I'm confident you're passionate about
and I know it's abstract, but you work
with a lot of startups, right? You've
worked with some of the best. This is
Silicon Valley and everyone wants to
hire the best people. I know it's a high
level, but when do I let the bar down?
Like, I haven't made the hire. Like,
you're on my board. You're I mean, you
know, you're talking I haven't made the
VPN hire and it's breaking because I
have 20 engineers and my CTO who I love
to death has only managed two people in
his life and it's been a quarter. Now,
it's okay. Okay, now it's two quarters
and boy, I mean, Keith, you're tough. I
mean, everyone's at the PayPal standard
or better. And I know it's abstract, but
what do I do? What do you do? What do I
do? This is a real problem. I mean,
obviously, as the market has been hot in
technology and as capital's been
available and cheap, more and more
people start companies. So, there's a
diffusion of talent and it's very
difficult to create a critical density
of talent. One of the reasons why we
were able to do that at PayPal is
between 2000 and 2002, there were no
other jobs available. So we had like a
90 some like you could go to eBay maybe
you could go to Google if you had a PhD
maybe. And you could go to Netflix if
you were willing to go down to Losers
which most wherever that is. Yeah.
Wherever the hell that is. Might as well
go might as well go to Florida. Um so um
what we did at PayPal was in some ways
easy. We just had to select wisely
because everybody gave a job offer to
accepted. There's like 95% conversion
rate on offers which nobody has for the
last three years. Um, however, what
Peter taught me the first day, actually
the first week I worked at PayPal, we
went for a jog around the Stanford
campus and he explained to me his hiring
philosophy, which has stuck with me for
like 16 years, which is you cannot go
after proven people when you're a
startup, just can't do it because
everybody's going on once someone's
obviously proven like if you look at my
profile, let's say everybody in the
world can assess it roughly equally.
Doesn't mean it's good, but all come to
the same conclusion because there's a
lot of data points. There's a lot of
reference checks. Yeah, there's no like
unique asset for a startup in evaluating
me. So, they're going to lose more often
than not in competing with someone who
has more money, more traction, more more
sex appeal somewhere. So, I think you
have to go after people that are less
proven. And you have to get really good
at evaluating those kind of people and
that's a special skill. Like that's what
Peter basically taught me is you just
have to get focused on learning how to
evaluate people with less data on their
resume because once they have enough
data on their resume, you know,
Facebook's going to steal them or
Google's going to bribe them or, you
know, someone else will. And the only
way to do that is just practice. You've
got to get like figure out how to assess
people um and give them the opportunity
to succeed. And that requires mentoring
and a culture and there's a different
org structure around like having a lot
of those people. Um, so for example,
everybody says they want the classic VPE
every board meeting. Here's the specs. I
actually hate specs in some ways even
though everybody requires you to drop
them because they always say like I want
10 years of experience, proven ability
to do this. And you're like it's like
baseball saying I want a third baseman
who bats 300, hits 40 home runs, 100
RBI, and wins a gold glove. There's
exactly two of those. Yeah, there
literally are two in the world. And like
what are you going to, you know, so
writing a spec that says you want one
and two in the world just isn't
constructive. Um, so I'd rather have
somebody who has upside potential and
you're taking a battle. So for example,
VPE, let's be specific. There's two
kinds of things that you want in a VPE.
One is let's say proven ability to
manage and one is a lot of like
technical ability like so there's manage
technical ability recruiting a bunch a
little bit strategy, strategic thinking,
at least being competent in
understanding it. I would take a bet
that they don't have one of those
things. Like if they had an A+
experience in one, like they're just
like cutting edge technologists and you
know that they have a network of people
that really respect them. So they're
probably going to recruit well, but they
haven't proven they can manage a team of
50 people. They've only managed a team
of seven. I might take that bet. Or
conversely, someone who's managed a team
of 100 and isn't a world-class
technologist, but the rest of the team
is including, let's say, me as the
founder. I let's say I was a world-class
technologist. I might live with a VP
who's not but just a proven
extraordinary manager. Yeah. So again
it's like a compliment but you're gonna
have to take a bet somewhere and take
some risk and then how do you complement
that risk or how do you measure the
person's progress against that risk and
you know that but you can't you can't
get central cast. No one can hire
central casting central casting unless
you hit massive escape velocity. So if
you're the one Uber, one Facebook, you
know, one company or two companies of
uh, you know, a year, you can you can
attract people that are central casting,
central casting, central casting. But if
you're not that, you you have to pick
and choose. And and I think most
founders that are driven and first time,
they're they're pretty good at assessing
whether someone is better than them,
right? And they they can do that
intuitive part and with a little bit of
help like you got from Peter Teal, they
can get really good at it with a little
bit of coaching. They're not as great if
they've never been a manager of
assessing the management skills of these
people. And so the natural athlete
that's done a few things is great advice
until you need real, you know, maybe up
to 50 employees, 60, but then you then
if you've never been a manager, the best
way to get from 50 to 200 is managers,
is it? Not managers of managers of
managers. No. So what's your advice? Is
it just get better mentors, get a good
board, but how do you add how do you
help make sure the founder doesn't screw
that one up? So, one thing a good
investor, good board member can do is
help assess an interview. And it can be
early in the funnel or later in the
funnel. Um, that definitely one thing to
look for an investors is when you're
adding to your team, can they help you
recruit, source, close, and evaluate.
Um, second thing is I think one one
thing I learned from actually Brian
Chesy had a great idea about this is go
meet the five best people at something.
So, if you're going to hire a CFO, for
example, almost no new founder has ever
met a CFO. You always got to at least
interview five. You have to interview
interview, just go have coffee with like
the five best people because then you
can do a little pattern recognition.
Okay, well what's in common? Why does
everybody think these are the five best?
What do I see in talking to them? So at
least then when you're interviewing
people, you can kind of evaluate them
against some benchmark. Um you can find
mentors um to help you like so for
example, when I was earlier in my
career, I had no clue how to hire a VP.
Like really like no like clueless. you
hadn't done it and well it just also I
didn't I didn't even know like the right
questions to kind of really ask so I
borrowed and begged you know I had like
my friend Max like interview some for me
like literally like you know two two
candidates I was like seriously thinking
about like can you meet them and give me
feedback because I just didn't know how
to do it so I took advantage of my
network and at least got like some
directional guidance and that was really
helpful so you have to kind of use your
network and that may be like angel in
you might have angel investors on your
cap table who have extraordinary ability
in a particular vertical Ask them to go
meet this person and give you feedback.
You know, use use your angels. Most
people don't actually. They don't. Yeah.
I love that. I I my my my hack your hack
is much better is for any position you
haven't hired before, interview so many
people until you don't learn anything.
Like you've you've met so many people
that are at least a there's no new
answer. And then you'll start to figure
out what the bar is. And I still believe
that's true. But meeting as many people
for coffee outside of that, then you've
got this magic combination of at least
you know what the bar is. There's one
other thing you can do is I think you
can get good pretty early in your career
at reference checking um because it does
um span different verticals. So in your
core area, you get good at reference
checking. Let's say you're a great
product person. You learn how to do that
for PMs and directors of product.
Similar kind of questions that you'd ask
in engineering reference checks and
similar in marketing. So once you get
good at the process of reference
checking and really being good at it, if
you are good at it, that can help. It
certainly can help you avoid mistakes
and occasionally help you find a gem.
Yeah, it's more downside than upside,
but it can definitely help hack. And
let's talk about something. Uh, we
briefly tweeted about this, but to me,
you've always worked in hyperrowth
companies. To me, I'm in a new world.
Like I I I built two startups that grew
at a decent pace and had decent exits
and now the companies I work with, my
jaw just drops at at Right. And but I
think the faster the company goes, the
more the playbook changes, right? you
can take not only can you take your time
but the way you hire do and how should I
if I'm lucky enough to hit a million in
revenue growing 20% a month instead of
10 how should I rethink sequencing my
hiring so I actually think these
companies are the most fun they're super
chaotic and stressful super chaotic but
the faster they grow the more the more
chaotic it is right they're like nothing
else in the world like it's like such a
learning experience um you know I
remember when we were going through this
at square I said to some of my
colleagues I was like you don't know how
lucky you because like LinkedIn is a
great company. LinkedIn grew linearly
always and I was like this is like you
might never do this again in 20 years
like get to go through this kind of
rocket ride. Yeah, it's very chaotic
because you have to change all the rules
very fast and it's a rough a rough
metric is the numerator and denominator
on your hiring. So your denominator is
the number of current employees and
let's say your numerator is the number
of new employees you're going to add in
a month or a quarter. As that percentage
gets high, it actually means that the
inbound people, the incoming people are
probably going to impart more on the
organization than you can stamp on them.
And so you have to be really good at
cultural assimilation and have very
strong principles and onboarding to try
to preserve the parts of your culture
that are unique and you really want to
preserve because otherwise the people
are going to bring with them because
they're a bigger mass. So like let's say
you're adding two people a month and you
have 100 people. The new people aren't
going to change. They love their
culture. Yeah. But imagine you have 100
people and you're going to add 50 in a
quarter, which actually does happen in
hyperrowth companies. That culture is
changing for better or for worse. And
you know, if you're not directional
about it, it's definitely going to be
worse. Um it's not going to be like the
brew you want. Every culture of a
successful company is a custom brew. So
make sure that you're guiding the parts
and keeping the parts and preserving the
parts. The other thing is um it's a
great opportunity to hire talented
people though because it's a nonzero sum
environment. There's always new
challenges, opportunities, and problems.
And you can't hire fast enough to fix
them. So you have to kind of grab people
who are talented who've never done X
before. So like you have a marketing
problem. By the time I can interview,
close and get someone started to do
marketing, it's like weeks to months.
And that's if I'm really good, like
amazing. Your whole job specs change by
the time you close the hire. So I'm
gonna go run after someone in the
company who may be an intern even and
say if we got this marketing problem
please go fix this and that person might
turn out to be amazing at it and that
might be the person's you know
trajectory you know for 10 years and it
might be their career and those kind of
opportunities are awesome for young
talented people. So I would go hire a
lot of those people because you can just
throw them at problems left and right
and they're not going to find that you
know once a company gets a little bit
more static or has a little bit more
linear growth. Everything has silos to
it in boxes and it's a you know this
this person's responsible this person's
accountable to you don't get those
opportunities like you know early in
your career and how and growth another
related question is the I mean you
ideally even if you have natural
athletes you want people that can scale
so you need to hire someone that can not
only do the job today but at least can
do the job ideally 18 months from now
that'd be a lot better that's a lot
better than 12 how do you when you're in
this hyperrowth environment sometimes a
problem I see you go out you spend three
months to hire hire the VP of sales and
it's too late too late. You hired the
right guy at two. You turn around, it's
10 and you make that hire and I'm like,
you know, Linda's great, but she it's
it's too late for Linda. So, how far out
should I look and and skate to the puck
on hockey or whatever our metaphor is?
It depends a little bit on how much
visibility and confidence you have about
the growth continuing because it does
vary. You know, not every company that's
growing like this today really is going
to grow like that in six months or 12
months. Some are. Fair enough. Um, so it
depends on how you know what the data
points look like and what that slope
looks like and how much it's likely to
continue because what's fueling that?
How scalable is that? How sustainable is
it? If it's really sustainable, you you
have two choices. One is you hire
someone and you have to be honest with
them in the recruiting process that you
may have the opportunity to have this
job forever. Yeah. But reality is that
if we continue this growth for two more
years, I'm not sure I'm going to be able
to give you this job. It happens a lot
with CFO candidates. A lot. So like V
you you hire a VP of finance, they want
to be CFO. They may have time to learn
to be CFO, but let's say you're like one
of these explosive companies that's just
one of a kind. They may not have the
time to learn to be CFO and you just may
have to have that honest conversation up
front. It's better to have that
conversation up front. Yeah. Um I think
a lot of us struggle with that. We were
talking with Christian Hely from Corners
this morning and you know, do you want
to tell them you you you may you may not
make it in a year, right? You may be
chopped or maybe it's definitely tricky.
I'd rather have at least some part of
that conversation upfront and say it's
your opportunity to prove me wrong
because the people will prove you wrong
like a certain segment will will and
then also what you're looking for if you
really want them to prove you wrong is
you can usually tell where there's some
upside doesn't mean they're going to be
able to prove the upside but like
there's two hires let's say and this is
one of the hardest um things to teach
your team is usually have two choices
one's a pretty safe bet competent
clearly proven will do the job fine The
other one a little bit riskier but with
more upside of being potentially
awesome. Yeah. In a high growth company
I might error much much more to this
because you you're just going to need
some of those um to continue to propel
and so I'd rather take more risk here.
It's like product features. You can do
linear you know iterative product
features but you've got to take some
like value proposition enhancing 10x
feature shots. In a high growth company
I take a lot of bets on 10x people. I
think so. And the challenge is sometimes
when you have other adviserss or board
members or investors that have your
experience, they're going to totally go
the other way. They want the safest hire
in the world that's comfortable today
and that beta, that odd risk seems it's
it's it's controversial, right? So to
me, it's a ratio question. It's almost
never 100% or 0%. I don't think you want
0% like not proven for or do you want,
you know, 100% like internal promotions
and it's a ratio. I think in a really
healthy amazing company with lots of
mentoring and learning, you might be
able to get to about 70% internal
promotions. Um I remember actually
having a Square board meeting when I
wanted 70 and I had a whole plan about
how we're going to do this and V it's
like you're going too fast. If you do
50/50 it'd be amazing. Yeah, it's an
interesting ratio. Um and 50/50 is good
because then it actually is legitimate
like plausible like if you do your job
well and you really demonstrate a high
rate of learning half of you are going
to get promoted. But but we're gonna
have to at that rate at square you're
promoting people every six months. Yeah.
I mean I'm backing I could be wrong but
but the jobs can get still interesting.
I mean that's part of the art too is if
you're growing this fast even if you
don't promote somebody the job they used
to do is going to be very different and
more challenging than it was last month.
So it's not like keep doing what you're
doing. If you're growing 10% a month
realistically if you don't get promoted
you are doing what you did last week.
But if you're growing 20% 30% a month,
yeah, that job's changing every six
months. And so just holding on is
actually a challenge. Like you want
people to be challenged at the end of
the day. Like people stay in jobs that
are challenged. People grow in jobs that
are challenged. So it's good for them
emotionally. It's good for them
professionally. So the faster you're
growing as a company, the more
challenges there are sort of by
definition. Yeah. So last question. This
time blew by, but I want to do one line
of what is good stuff, right? But I want
to hit because a mistake I see again and
again. Let's talk about that because the
last one the comfortable candidate right
the the one you talked I forget the
ratio what when a founder is struggling
it's been four months to make the hire
five months we've been there and I have
the comfortable candidate right checks
the boxes but I know I don't have the
beta I don't have the the craziness what
should I do should I make the hire the
other investors that haven't been in
hyperrowth like it may I don't know
about a year like right should I just
make the higher I think it depends on
the function um so how critical is the
function because there's a difference
between having an incomplete team and a
mediocre team. So it's fine to have to
some extent often an incomplete team.
Most companies that we fund, especially
if you're a series A investor, are by
definition incomplete teams. Even series
B is usually an incomplete team. So
that's better than a mediocre team. So
I'd rather hold that position open. Now,
if it's the core DNA, like it's like the
core um leverage, like every company
competes on one dimension. If it's the
company, if it's the dimension you're
competing on, it's really hard to keep
that open. Yeah. Like it's very
stressful. It's extremely stressful on
everybody. So, it depends how many
things are breaking. In some ways, it's
like how many things are breaking? Like
what are the signs of things breaking?
Like what signals are people quitting?
You know, are your highest value people
quitting and frustrated because they
don't have any manager? You know, they
need a manager, they need feedback. You
got to fix that right away because it's
corrosive. um are you losing market
share because like your sales or
marketing, you know, just aren't Yeah,
that's a real issue. Then I'd take a B+
person like just to stabilize get it in
now. So, I don't know there's a right
answer, but I think partially when
you're interviewing also investors, this
is the kind of conversation because what
you ideally want is a board that's
mostly aligned. It's good to have like
uh you know different views on a board,
but structurally from a first principles
perspective. Yeah. You kind of want
board members giving you generally
directionally similar feedback. That
would be nice. So you can have an active
conversation and dialogue and get like
extract like real feedback. Okay, can we
take a chance and waiting six more
months or are we going to break so many
things that our ship is actually going
to start sinking and I'd rather pull the
trigger now to prevent that and then
we'll build on top of that later. But it
depends on the function and how accute
like so in finance sometimes you can
defer it because mostly finance is a 10%
feature. So, if you do $100 million in
revenue, and I expect a VP of finance to
add $10 million of value, but if you're
doing a million in revenue, do you
really need a VP of finance? Well,
they're going to add $100,000 of value.
You're going to pay them a lot more than
that. So, just defer the finance problem
until you get your perfect finance
candidate. You're doing a billion
dollars of revenue, you need a finance
candidate because that's a hundred
million even if they're only 10%. You
don't want to waste $100 million. That's
cool. All right. I wish we had more
time, but Keith, this is great. We might
be supposed to sit. Let's see. Are we
supposed to still sit or get up? I think
we're supposed to get out. Are we
supposed to get up? Oh, get up. All
right. Thank you, Keith. This was epic.
Really appreciate it. Thanks. Thanks,
man.